offensive and right when I was leaving you know
there was kind of a you know just a change I guess it
didn't seem like it may was a change that had taken
place in me but some of the people that you know I
would run into and stuff were just weird but I you
know I don't think you can make sweeping
statements like that about about an entire body of
people because uh I knew some heroes. I knew some
people who were, you know, up to speed with anybody
who'd ever come to the assistance of this country
in time of war, ever in the history of America.
So, I don't buy that. I think that maybe the youth of
the people might have had some effect But most of
the guys that I knew were regular people, and some
of them better than regular people. But none of
them were, on the average, depraved or anything
like that, like you would see in movies like
Apocalypse Now and stuff like that. Although
there were the nuts. They were there. But they were
not the, they were the exception, in my view. An
exception on it. Oh, yeah. How long were you over in
Vietnam? I was there a little over a year. I stayed
past the time I had to stay because they had this
deal where if you had less than, I think it was seven
months left in the Army when you finished your tour
of duty in Vietnam, then you got out of the Army. So I
stayed there for a month or so extra and got out
early. What was it like to get on the plane and
realize you were leaving that? It was
interesting. It was good. It was a mess, though,
when I got down to Cameron Bay. Yeah, I got out of
Cameron. I got there, and things were all screwed
up, so I went and stayed at a B team right outside of
Cameron Bay. I can't remember what. I think it was
B35 or something like that. It was at Dombatin
where they had the Special Forces Jump School.
where we put the Montagnards through paratrooper
training. And I stayed there with a buddy of mine
that I used to talk to on the radio all the time for
about two weeks. And then went back into
Cameron Bay. And basically, it sucked. Because I
had been out there. It was like all of a sudden, it
was like this rudely, over-structured
environment, you know, it was like he'd welcome
back to the bullshit again, you know. I had made the
rank of sergeant, you know, and they treated us
like a bunch of assholes at Cameron Bay. It was more
like we were just a bunch of weirdos, you know, to
come down out of the jungle, and they were trying
real careful to make sure that none of us, you know,
freaked out. After being in Vietnam for all that
time, and all of a sudden, here I was back at Tan Son
Nhat, or excuse me, Cam Ranh Bay, picking up
cigarette butts, you know, and kissing ass, and
getting yelled at for not having a haircut. It just
thoroughly pissed me off. That's exactly how I
felt.
I wanted to, it just thoroughly pissed me off. And
then you'd wait, you know, and wait, and wait. And
it was like a grinding kind of, you know, well, the
fuck am I going to get out of here? It was just about
the way I felt by the time I left. In other words, the
processing that they put you through prior to
leaving the country was sort of demeaning. And I
didn't have a weapon anymore, except, you know,
Cameron Bay was no big shake, I guess. They got
rocketed every once in a while, but it was like one
big sandy bunch of bullshit. No trees, no nothing.
And it was demeaning. I was pissed. And when I got
back to the States, I was thoroughly pissed. How
did people treat you when you got back? Well,
again, I got out of the Army in Fort Lewis. And I
guess when you're real close to getting out of the
Army, I think the Army starts to worry about you.
It's kind of like these guys are real close to
getting out. Anything could happen. It's an
explosive sort of situation, I think, because
you're this close to not being in the Army anymore,
and it's just kind of like you're tired of being, as
they say, fucked with. You just want out. So we came
into Fort Lewis, Washington in the middle of the
night, And the big deal was I hadn't drank fresh
milk for long. And I was dying for some milk. And the
big deal was that we were going to get steaks and
milk. So we got there in some mess hall in the middle
of the night. And they gave us these flimsy little
tough ass steaks. People were ready to throw them
at the walls. Everybody was just pissed. I mean, we
felt like we were let down right from that point
while we were still in the military. And then
finally, we got out. They hand you a plane ticket
and a handful of cash and say goodbye. It's up to you
to find your way to the airport. And you're left
standing at the gate of an Army base with a handful
of cash and a plane ticket. Because what they do is
they give you a plane ticket back to your home or
record, wherever that might have been. Of course,
I was in New Jersey. If you had any extra money left
over, for leave that you didn't take or whatever.
You got that cash when you got out of the service. So
here's all these lunatics, you know, standing at
the gates of all these pissed off guys, right?
Standing out in front of Fort Lewis in the middle of
the night with a handful of dollar bills and an
airplane ticket going, ah, motherfucking shit.
And so you have to take a taxi cab, right, to the
airport. So we all got to the airport, and all
special forces guys sort of stuck together.
Immediately we went to the bar and just started
drinking up the bar and just going berserk. And
then said goodbye to each other. There was this one
guy, this Puerto Rican guy that I had known over in
Vietnam. But somehow or other, we got out at the
same time and ran into each other at the airport.
And we flew back to New York together. And the
flight back. That was just kind of like nothing.
The only, the worst experience I had, I came back
escorting a friend of mine that had been killed,
and I remember getting on an airplane that time and
sitting down next to this businessman, you know,
and saying, hey, I just got back from Vietnam. And
he sort of went, oh, I went back to reading this
newspaper. I was kind of like, you fucking
asshole. I felt like ripping his teeth right out of
his face and sticking them up his ass. That's
pretty rude, but that's the way I felt. And it was
kind of like, the second time I came back, it was a
little bit different, because I'd already been
back once, you know, but the first time I came back,
it was just like, strange-o. I remember coming
into the military base, and the kind of the
apparent tranquility, you know, of the world, as
opposed to Vietnam, where you have like, you know,
constant cacophony, you know, people yapping,
and helicopters flying over all over the place,
and trucks roaring and everything, and people
yelling, and all of a sudden there were no barbed
wire fences, and there were people in civilian
clothes, and there were white people, you know,
all over the place, women who weren't and
the contrast between... I remember the first
thing I thought was, God, these people do not know
how good they have it. They just don't know. They
just don't know that this is so peaceful, this is so
tranquil, this is so safe. They just don't know how
good they have it. That was my first basic
impression. The first time I came back. The second
time I came back, I was pissed. You know, I said, I
want to get out of the Army. You know, I mean, that
was just bullshit. So, you know, I was, the second
time I was, I was mad, but glad, you know. And my
family did a real nice job of greeting me. You know,
they had a big, big sign up on the house that said,
welcome home. And, uh, It was good. One last
question. Do you think we lost the war? Special
Forces didn't lose the war. Maybe some other
outfit did, but we did our job. When I left Vietnam,
we had, at that time, a lot of the A camps, except for
the ones right on the border, either up along the
DMZ or near layoffs, were pretty much pacified.
What they did out on the A camps is they had, what
they tried to do was set up what he would call, it was
called CIDG, and also Ruff Puff, which were sort of
like the counterpart of a home militia. So we
trained and equipped, set these people up, sort of
maintained them, and when they could defend
themselves, you know, their region, you know,
from insurgency, from these bozo recruiting
campaigns, you know, that would sweep through
their area every once in a while, and the Special
Forces closed the camp down. And when I left, there
were, and it wasn't part of Nixon's
Vietnamization program, it was just sort of like
we had succeeded. And when you look at the rapid
deployment force that they have today that has
been successful, for example, that lightning
strike they did down there in Grenada. It
was modeled after the Mike Force, which was a
mobile reaction force that was, instead of going
into the jungle and searching out Viet Cong and
NVA, what we started to do was wait for them to
attack a village or a camp. And then we had the Mike
Force, which was like the charge of the Light
Brigade, which would go roar assing in there and
meet them out in the open and kick the shit out of
them. And that was pretty much what we did. And it
worked to a certain extent. And this rapid
deployment force that they have now, which is
basically sort of a counterinsurgency outfit, I
think, is sort of designed, or what they're doing
down in Guatemala There are special forces guys
down there right now training these people, and
they probably have like a mobile reaction force
where they wait for the guerrillas to hit the
government troops, and then these guys just go
tear-assing in there before they can go back and
hide
and meet them. which was much more effective. See,
originally, I think, when we went to Vietnam, they
did sort of traditional stuff, where they'd take
16 million Marines, give them 20 pounds of
ammunition, and say, OK, march, and mow down
everything in sight. Didn't work. So what we did
was basically counterinsurgency, which had to do
with waiting, laying in wait, more or less. But
also, around the A camps, they what you would call
traditional sorts of set up ambushes, sweep
through the area kind of stuff. But whenever we
made contact, or whenever they made contact, and
if it was sustained, there was always the
likelihood that they'd call in the mobile team.
Not always, but.
I don't get it. I appreciate it. Sure.
um
Thank
you.
.
Thank
you.
So,
Thank
you.
you
so
Thank
you.
you. Thank you.
Mm-hmm.
Thank
you.
Okay.
Thank
you. .
.
Thank
you.
you. Thank
Thank
you.
you. Thank
you. Okay.
um
Thank
you.
.